CCSMB-5: PCM Audio Transmissions over modem (#18)
CCSMB/Standards: Standards/CCSMB-5.md

# CCSMB-5: Radio Transmissions
```md
*Author: Emma Beurskens <@emmaknijn>*
*Version: v1.0.0*
*Last updated: YYYY-MM-DD*
```

## Design
A client will only listen to packets while the audio is being transmitted from a server
The server will communicate to the client over modem

## Packet
A packet consists of the following fields in a table:

> - buffer: Signed 8-bit PCM @ 48kHz

Reviewer: Might want to elaborate on this later on.

Author: znepb suggested that that might be a standard as well

> - id: A random number that identifies the radio station

Reviewer 2: A random number? Is the `stationName` not usable as identification?

Author: stationName could be used to also show stuff like the current show, as where id should be persistent over time

Reviewer: Yeah. In the United States, radio stations broadcast their call sign and sometimes the title and author of the playing song.

Author: Considering we have title now, I think id could be dropped, since title would be usable for that.

> - id: A random number that identifies the radio station

Reviewer: Is there an easy way to generate UUIDs in ComputerCraft? If there is, maybe we should use those.

Author: Unsure, let me do some research into that

Author: There is actually a UUID API but its really ancient: http://www.computercraft.info/forums2/index.php?/topic/13924-uuid-api-universally-unique-identifier/

Reviewer 2: https://gist.github.com/jrus/3197011

This is all UUID4 requires in lua.

Author: but at the end of the day id is redundant since stationName exists

- stationName: The name of the radio station

> - songName: The song that is currently being played

Reviewer: Maybe something more generic, like `title`?

Author: Sure!

> # CCSMB-5: Radio Transmissions

Author: `DFPWM Audio Transmissions Over Modem` could work

> # CCSMB-5: Radio Transmissions

Reviewer 3: It's not DFPWM though.

> # CCSMB-5: Radio Transmissions

Author: PCM Audio Transmissions over modem

*Author: Emma Beurskens <@emmaknijn>*
*Version: v1.0.0*
*Last updated: YYYY-MM-DD*

## Design
A client will only listen to packets while the audio is being transmitted from a server

> The server will communicate to the client over modem

Reviewer 3: This is still not fixed. Please check the rich preview before committing to verify all formatting.

## Packet
A packet consists of the following fields in a table:
- buffer: A table that contains Signed 8-bit PCM @ 48kHz audio

> - station: A string that contains the name of the radio station

Reviewer 3: Instead of using the station name to identify the source, the computer's ID should be used, as this is unique per source (assuming servers are being truthful).

Reviewer 2: That's a better solution than the earlier proposed random IDs.

Author: I'll keep the station in there for metadata as that seems appropriate, but the id thing is pretty good

> - title: A string that contains the song that is currently being played

Reviewer 3: Is this required for all data? What happens if there's no "song" playing? Passing a blank string feels like a dirty solution.

Author: The metadata table system would resolve this

- protocol: A string that contains the protocol used

> In order to be compliant the

Author: Could you write an example, I feel like writing the same `In order to be compliant the` in 5 bullet points is a bit redundant

> - protocol field must be "CCSMB-5"

Reviewer: AOR (Audio over Rednet)?

> - protocol field must be "CCSMB-5"

Reviewer 4: `DFPWMTOR` seems a little long doesn't it?

> - protocol field must be "CCSMB-5"

Reviewer 5: I'd say AOR would be alright; "terminal redirection over rednet" (TRoR, the thing `nsh` uses) doesn't require the use of rednet either but it still has that name.

> - protocol field must be "CCSMB-5"

Author: I disagree on rednet naming, as its intended to be served over modem in general, rather than rednet specifically

> - protocol field must be "CCSMB-5"

Reviewer 6: protocol for audio streaming in computercraft, pasc?

> - protocol field must be "CCSMB-5"

Author: That could work, also for the standard name

> - client must be able to accept the buffer field

Reviewer 3: This doesn't really mean anything - should cut it out.

> - client must be able to deal with crosstalk by allowing the user to select a station if there are multiple stations on a single channel

Reviewer 3: What happens if two servers advertise the same "station" on the same channel?

Author: In short: chaos
With the id parameter it isnt that bad but bad actors still can cause chaos
Basically the client will try to play both servers so audio will be garbled

- client must reject a packet with an invalid protocol field

> - server must be able to transmit all of the fields

Reviewer 3: This doesn't really mean anything - should cut it out.

Author: I don't remember when I put that in, that shouldn't have been there :P

> A client must be able to deal with crosstalk

Author: That is intended

> - server must time the packets appropriately in a way that the client is just able to play back the buffer

Reviewer 3: This should be explained in a bit more detail - what is the timing specifically? How should a server send data packets? What happens if data is sent too quickly? Too slowly?

# CCSMB-5: PCM Audio Transmissions over modem
*Author: Emma Beurskens <@emmaknijn>*
*Version: v1.0.0*
*Last updated: YYYY-MM-DD*

## Design
A client will only listen to packets while the audio is being transmitted from a server

The server will communicate to the client over modem

All servers must be on seperate channels

> PASC refers to "Protocol for Audio Streaming in Computercraft"

Author: I'm not sure whether to use "ComputerCraft" or "Computercraft here"

Reviewer 7: do ComputerCraft, that seems to be common across references

Reviewer 7: see https://github.com/dan200/ComputerCraft

# CCSMB-5: PCM Audio Transmissions over modem (PASC)
*Author: Emma Beurskens <@emmaknijn>*
*Version: v1.0.0*
*Last updated: YYYY-MM-DD*

## Design
A client will only listen to packets while the audio is being transmitted from a server

The server will communicate to the client over modem

All servers must be on seperate channels

PASC refers to "Protocol for Audio Streaming in Computercraft"

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

## Packet
An audio packet consists of the following fields in a table:

> - `buffer`: A table that contains up to 8 tables of signed 8-bit PCM @ 48kHz audio

Author: Should we index this as
buffer.fr
buffer.fl
buffer.fc
etc...

A client will only listen to packets while the audio is being transmitted from a server
The server will communicate to the client over modem

## Packet
A packet consists of the following fields in a table:
- `buffer`: A table that contains Signed 8-bit PCM @ 48kHz audio
- `id`: The ID of the server sending the message
- `station`: A string that contains the name of the radio station

> - `title`: A string that contains the song that is currently being played, or other relevant metadata

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
`title`: A string that contains the song that is currently being played
`metadata`: A string that contains some relevant metadata (optional)
```
I would like to suggest putting metadata in a separate field. In my opinion, it is not worth putting this information in the "Title" field.
Let's say we have a public radio receiver that shows the current song. It is unlikely that users want to see there, for example, the name of album from which this song is taken.

Author: I think this is a good idea, waiting for response of others first though

Author: Hmm that could work as well, but would limit the metadata that can be sent. just `metadata` seems quite permissive and undefined

Reviewer 9: i feel like metadata should be a table
but that is just my preference

Author: We'd need to define set fields within the metadata table to avoid ambiguity, but that's possible

## Packet
A packet consists of the following fields in a table:
- buffer: A table that contains Signed 8-bit PCM @ 48kHz audio
- station: A string that contains the name of the radio station
- title: A string that contains the song that is currently being played

> - protocol: A string that contains the protocol used (for example "CCSMB-5")

Reviewer: This should be a hard requirement. "The string **must** be equal to `CCSMB-5`" or something like that.
